feat: hyperlane cli guide (#56)
hyperlane-xyz/v3-docs: docs/cli.md

# Hyperlane CLI

> The Hyperlane CLI is a command-line tool written in Typescript that facilitates common operations on Hyperlane, such as deploying the core contracts and/or warp routes to new chains.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Hyperlane CLI is a command-line tool written in Typescript that facilitates common operations such as:
- Creating Hyperlane configs.
- Viewing information about core chains.
- Deploying core contracts or warp routes to new chains.
- Sending test messages.
- Checking the status of a message.
```

Gives a broader overview of what the CLI can do before diving into the available commands

## Setup

Node 16 or newer is required.

## To install the CLI:

```bash
# Install the CLI globally
npm install -g @hyperlane-xyz/cli
```

## To use the CLI:

Just enter `hyperlane` in your terminal and you will see the available commands.

```bash
root@123: hyperlane

> 

Reviewer: `root@123` feels fine for examples showing the output like this one, but should be removed for codeblocks that we want people to copypasta

Hyperlane CLI

hyperlane <command>

Commands:
  hyperlane chains  View information about core Hyperlane chains
  hyperlane config  Create or validate Hyperlane configs
  hyperlane deploy  Permissionlessly deploy a Hyperlane contracts or extensions
  hyperlane send    Send a test message or transfer
  hyperlane status  Check status of a message

Options:
  --version  Show version number                                       [boolean]
  --help     Show help                                                 [boolean]
```

> The commands currently available are `chains`, `config`, `deploy`, `send`, and `status`.
> Each command has its own set of options and subcommands.
> 
> Let's take a look at what each command does along with the options you get to use as well as the subcommands with their usual behavior.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As the example shows, the commands currently available are `chains`, `config`, `deploy`, `send`, and `status`.

Each command has its own set of options and subcommands. Let's take a look at what these are and understand their behavior.
```

## Commands
### chains

> The `chains` command is used to view information about core Hyperlane chains.
> 
> ```bash
> root@123: hyperlane chains
> ```
> 
> Thsi command pertains to getting information about the chains supported and the addresses of contracts as per the SDK.
> 
> This would have the following output:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `chains` command is used to view information about core Hyperlane chains such as the set of supported chains and the addresses of deployed Hyperlane contracts on those chains.
```

imo no need to have a separate `hyperlane chains` example if it doesn't do anything itself

example below showing list/addresses is sufficient

ditto for other top-level commands you may write about

```bash
root@123: hyperlane chains
Commands:
  hyperlane chains list       List all core chains included in the Hyperlane SDK
  hyperlane chains addresses  Display the addresses of core Hyperlane contracts

Options:
  --help  Show help                                                    [boolean]
```

> Exploring the subcommands:
> 

Reviewer: implied by the subheadings
```suggestion
```

#### list

The `list` subcommand is used to list all core chains included in the Hyperlane SDK.

```bash

> root@123: hyperlane chains list

Reviewer: this is an example where root@123 is not needed
```suggestion
hyperlane chains list
```

```

> This would have the following output:

Reviewer: this text makes sense here because the command actually does something

│      alfajores      │       'Alfajores'       │   44787    │
│   arbitrumgoerli    │    'Arbitrum Goerli'    │   421613   │
│     basegoerli      │      'Base Goerli'      │   84531    │
│     bsctestnet      │      'BSC Testnet'      │     97     │
│       chiado        │        'Chiado'         │   10200    │
│        fuji         │         'Fuji'          │   43113    │
│       goerli        │        'Goerli'         │     5      │
│     lineagoerli     │     'Linea Goerli'      │   59140    │
│    moonbasealpha    │    'Moonbase Alpha'     │    1287    │
│       mumbai        │        'Mumbai'         │   80001    │
│   optimismgoerli    │    'Optimism Goerli'    │    420     │
│ polygonzkevmtestnet │ 'Polygon zkEVM Testnet' │    1442    │
│    scrollsepolia    │    'Scroll Sepolia'     │   534351   │
│       sepolia       │        'Sepolia'        │  11155111  │
│    solanadevnet     │     'Solana Devnet'     │ 1399811151 │
│    solanatestnet    │    'Solana Testnet'     │ 1399811150 │
│   eclipsetestnet    │    'Eclipse Testnet'    │ 239092742  │
└─────────────────────┴─────────────────────────┴────────────┘
```

> As per the date of writing, these are the chains supported by the SDK.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::note
To view the latest set of supported chains, install the latest Hyperlane CLI and run `hyperlane chains list` yourself.
:::
```

#### addresses

The `addresses` subcommand is used to display the addresses of core Hyperlane contracts.

```bash

> root@123: hyperlane chains addresses

Reviewer: ```suggestion
hyperlane chains addresses
```

    "merkleRootMultisigIsmFactory": "0x896cF1D1B66cD211633eDd589fF158E8Cfaf9B54",
    "messageIdMultisigIsmFactory": "0x8819D653DF5b1FC0DdB32189a2704E471AF8483c",
    "aggregationIsmFactory": "0xa5E13796eB7d2EDCc88012c8cfF90D69B51FcF9f",
    "aggregationHookFactory": "0x3bF6Ac986C7Af9A9Ac356C0e99C0041EFd8D96e7",
    "merkleTreeHook": "0x84eea61D679F42D92145fA052C89900CBAccE95A",
    "interchainGasPaymaster": "0x95519ba800BBd0d34eeAE026fEc620AD978176C0",
    "aggregationHook": "0x0165a22BA489F7DA37DAf6397781777D9FCB5708",
    "protocolFee": "0xEc4AdA26E51f2685279F37C8aE62BeAd8212D597",
    "mailbox": "0xFf06aFcaABaDDd1fb08371f9ccA15D73D51FeBD6",
    "validatorAnnounce": "0x9Cad0eC82328CEE2386Ec14a12E81d070a27712f",
    "testRecipient": "0x36FdA966CfffF8a9Cdc814f546db0e6378bFef35",
    "testTokenRecipient": "0x85ac1164878e017b67660a74ff1f41f3D05C02Bb",
    "routingIsmFactory": "0x28F7907911C7E321c596686AE6D1F20516450037",
    "pausableHook": "0x239eB860770F1C48ABAC9bE9825d20e3E7c018df",
    "fallbackRoutingHook": "0x61D15D571D5f7A9eF0D1938f072f430bBF024747",
    "interchainSecurityModule": "0xA36B02a83564f52d9244310Ea439ee6F6AfeFb60"

>   },
>   "mantapacific": {
>     "merkleRootMultisigIsmFactory": "0x8F7454AC98228f3504Bb91eA3D8Adafe6406110A",
>     "messageIdMultisigIsmFactory": "0xEb9FcFDC9EfDC17c1EC5E1dc085B98485da213D6",
>     "aggregationIsmFactory": "0x1052eF3419f26Bec74Ed7CEf4a4FA6812Bc09908",
>     "aggregationHookFactory": "0x0761b0827849abbf7b0cC09CE14e1C93D87f5004",
>     "proxyAdmin": "0x2f2aFaE1139Ce54feFC03593FeE8AB2aDF4a85A7",
>     "mailbox": "0x3a464f746D23Ab22155710f44dB16dcA53e0775E",
>     "domainRoutingIsm": "0xDEed16fe4b1c9b2a93483EDFf34C77A9b57D31Ff",
>     "storageGasOracle": "0x19dc38aeae620380430C200a6E990D5Af5480117",
>     "interchainGasPaymaster": "0x0D63128D887159d63De29497dfa45AFc7C699AE4",
>     "merkleTreeHook": "0x149db7afD694722747035d5AEC7007ccb6F8f112",
>     "aggregationHook": "0x8464aF853363B8d6844070F68b0AB34Cb6523d0F",
>     "protocolFee": "0xd83A4F747fE80Ed98839e05079B1B7Fe037b1638",
>     "validatorAnnounce": "0x2fa5F5C96419C222cDbCeC797D696e6cE428A7A9",
>     "routingIsmFactory": "0x8358D8291e3bEDb04804975eEa0fe9fe0fAfB147",
>     "testRecipient": "0x4E1c88DD261BEe2941e6c1814597e30F53330428",
>     "testTokenRecipient": "0x5060eCD5dFAD300A90592C04e504600A7cdcF70b",
>     "pausableHook": "0x7556a0E61d577D921Cba8Fca0d7D6299d36E607E",
>     "fallbackRoutingHook": "0xD1E267d2d7876e97E217BfE61c34AB50FEF52807",
>     "interchainSecurityModule": "0xDEed16fe4b1c9b2a93483EDFf34C77A9b57D31Ff"
>   },
>   "inevm": {
>     "merkleRootMultisigIsmFactory": "0x2C1FAbEcd7bFBdEBF27CcdB67baADB38b6Df90fC",
>     "messageIdMultisigIsmFactory": "0x8b83fefd896fAa52057798f6426E9f0B080FCCcE",
>     "aggregationIsmFactory": "0x8F7454AC98228f3504Bb91eA3D8Adafe6406110A",
>     "aggregationHookFactory": "0xEb9FcFDC9EfDC17c1EC5E1dc085B98485da213D6",
>     "routingIsmFactory": "0x1052eF3419f26Bec74Ed7CEf4a4FA6812Bc09908",
>     "domainRoutingIsm": "0xBD70Ea9D599a0FC8158B026797177773C3445730",
>     "proxyAdmin": "0x0761b0827849abbf7b0cC09CE14e1C93D87f5004",
>     "storageGasOracle": "0x6119E37Bd66406A1Db74920aC79C15fB8411Ba76",
>     "interchainGasPaymaster": "0x19dc38aeae620380430C200a6E990D5Af5480117",
>     "merkleTreeHook": "0x0972954923a1e2b2aAb04Fa0c4a0797e5989Cd65",
>     "aggregationHook": "0xe0dDb5dE7D52918237cC1Ae131F29dcAbcb0F62B",
>     "protocolFee": "0x0D63128D887159d63De29497dfa45AFc7C699AE4",
>     "mailbox": "0x2f2aFaE1139Ce54feFC03593FeE8AB2aDF4a85A7",
>     "validatorAnnounce": "0x15ab173bDB6832f9b64276bA128659b0eD77730B",
>     "interchainSecurityModule": "0x3052aD50De54aAAc5D364d80bBE681d29e924597",
>     "pausableIsm": "0x6Fae4D9935E2fcb11fC79a64e917fb2BF14DaFaa",
>     "staticAggregationIsm": "0x3052aD50De54aAAc5D364d80bBE681d29e924597",
>     "pausableHook": "0xBDa330Ea8F3005C421C8088e638fBB64fA71b9e0"
>   },
>   "viction": {
>     "merkleRootMultisigIsmFactory": "0x2C1FAbEcd7bFBdEBF27CcdB67baADB38b6Df90fC",
>     "messageIdMultisigIsmFactory": "0x8b83fefd896fAa52057798f6426E9f0B080FCCcE",
>     "aggregationIsmFactory": "0x8F7454AC98228f3504Bb91eA3D8Adafe6406110A",
>     "aggregationHookFactory": "0xEb9FcFDC9EfDC17c1EC5E1dc085B98485da213D6",
>     "routingIsmFactory": "0x1052eF3419f26Bec74Ed7CEf4a4FA6812Bc09908",
>     "mailbox": "0x2f2aFaE1139Ce54feFC03593FeE8AB2aDF4a85A7",
>     "proxyAdmin": "0x0761b0827849abbf7b0cC09CE14e1C93D87f5004",
>     "validatorAnnounce": "0x2fa5F5C96419C222cDbCeC797D696e6cE428A7A9",
>     "interchainSecurityModule": "0xBD70Ea9D599a0FC8158B026797177773C3445730",
>     "merkleTreeHook": "0x149db7afD694722747035d5AEC7007ccb6F8f112",
>     "storageGasOracle": "0x19dc38aeae620380430C200a6E990D5Af5480117",
>     "interchainGasPaymaster": "0x0D63128D887159d63De29497dfa45AFc7C699AE4",
>     "protocolFee": "0xd83A4F747fE80Ed98839e05079B1B7Fe037b1638",
>     "testRecipient": "0x17E216fBb22dF4ef8A6640ae9Cb147C92710ac84",
>     "testTokenRecipient": "0xe042D1fbDf59828dd16b9649Ede7abFc856F7a6c"
>   }
> }

Reviewer: As this is just an example, there is no need to include the entire output - simplify it to show an example for one chain and then let the rest be implied

```suggestion
{
  "sepolia": {
    "merkleRootMultisigIsmFactory": "0x0a71AcC99967829eE305a285750017C4916Ca269",
    "messageIdMultisigIsmFactory": "0xFEb9585b2f948c1eD74034205a7439261a9d27DD",
    "aggregationIsmFactory": "0xC83e12EF2627ACE445C298e6eC418684918a6002",
    "aggregationHookFactory": "0x160C28C92cA453570aD7C031972b58d5Dd128F72",
    "proxyAdmin": "0x97Bbc6bBaFa5Ce3b2FA966c121Af63bD09e940f8",
    "storageGasOracle": "0x71775B071F77F1ce52Ece810ce084451a3045FFe",
    "interchainGasPaymaster": "0x6f2756380FD49228ae25Aa7F2817993cB74Ecc56",
    "aggregationHook": "0xe3147d5618f5e2e100690B50ec923009a4cde14A",
    "protocolFee": "0x13AC3349Cb159fE86A22cf42DdA803D9f7309DB5",
    "mailbox": "0xfFAEF09B3cd11D9b20d1a19bECca54EEC2884766",
    "merkleTreeHook": "0x4917a9746A7B6E0A57159cCb7F5a6744247f2d0d",
    "validatorAnnounce": "0xE6105C59480a1B7DD3E4f28153aFdbE12F4CfCD9",
    "fallbackRoutingHook": "0x17Dc724B7a2F09141C13b8AC33B396073785c2BC",
    "testRecipient": "0xeDc1A3EDf87187085A3ABb7A9a65E1e7aE370C07",
    "testTokenRecipient": "0x031AD9c560D37baC7d6Bd2d27A2443bAfd10101A",
    "routingIsmFactory": "0x3F100cBBE5FD5466BdB4B3a15Ac226957e7965Ad"
  },
  "alfajores": {
    "merkleRootMultisigIsmFactory": "0xa9C7e306C0941896CA1fd528aA59089571D8D67E",
    ...
    "routingIsmFactory": "0x30d9A03762431F8A917a0C469E7A62Bf55092Ca6"
  },
  ...
}
```

```
</details><br>

> **Tip:** Keep the CLI updated to find new chains being added to the SDK.

> 

Reviewer: :::note
To view the latest set of deployed addresses, install the latest Hyperlane CLI and run `hyperlane chains addresses` yourself.
:::
